Preface 
The metaphors of three birds flying in the sky and three animals crossing the river have frequently been used in the Buddhist sutras  to depict the notions of distance and depth perceived differently by  different beings. Though the concept of distance within the vast  sky is inherently non-existent, at the flap of their wings, an eagle,  a pigeon, and a sparrow would span distances ranging from tens of  miles to only a couple of miles, and merely a few yards depending  on their varying abilities. As a result, the idea of distance is very  different to these three birds. 
In the same way, when an elephant, a horse, and a rabbit cross  the river, the elephant’s enormous body enables it to tread across the  riverbed and reach the far shore without difficulty, while the horse  and rabbit, unable to reach the bottom of the river, will struggle as  they swim across the river. 
The Buddha-Dharma is like the deep ocean or the vast sky. While  people may hold opinions on the differences in levels, there is no  saying who is right or wrong, because different levels of faith and  spiritual aptitude mean different levels of knowledge. There is no  need to think highly of oneself. Which one are you when crossing  the river? The elephant? The horse? Or the rabbit? Which one are  you in the sky? The eagle? The pigeon? Or the sparrow? One must  constantly self-evaluate. 
The Buddha’s teaching is kind, compassionate, wise, and equal.  However, how can we know we have truly understood the profundity  of the teaching? 
If one wants to know the length of a fabric or the weight of an  object, one must measure or weigh it. Similarly, we need to measure  and weigh the Dharma we think we have understood to know the  depth of our faith. Otherwise, we are like a kindergartener who  forcefully claims to be a university student, revealing our ignorance  to everyone. 
Is it possible for today’s Buddhists to explain the true meaning of  Buddhism without going against the original intents of the Buddha?  For example, the concept of heaven and hell is to encourage people  to transcend and not regress in their spiritual cultivation. However,  some ignorantly use the concept of hell to inflict fear upon devotees.  Why not use the goodness of heaven as encouragement for the  people? 
There is also the issue of being grateful for the contribution and  support devotees give to Buddhism. Often people say, “Amitabha  Buddha will be grateful for your contributions.” Why are we asking  Amitabha Buddha to help us express our gratitude? How can we  push this responsibility away? Are we not the ones who should  repay this kindness and contribution? 
Suffering, the fundamental teachings of Buddhism, is a concept  that should motivate us to endure hardships, to be hardworking,  to train ourselves through austerities because adversity makes us  stronger and better. Even a student needs to undergo a decade of  education to achieve success and recognition. Hence, suffering  makes our lives more meaningful. As the saying goes, “Out of the  worst of the worst pains emerges the best of the best people.” 
Buddhists today, however, often exclaim, “Suffering! Suffering!  Live no more! Pass away now! Pray to pass away now!” This is  not the reason why the Buddha expounded the truth of suffering.  By properly understanding suffering, it pushes us to transcend and  be liberated from it. Have these people not been giving the wrong  interpretations? 
For thousands of years, people think the Buddhist term  “emptiness” or the saying “the four elements are empty” means that  nothing exists, that there is nothing to possess, and that everything  is empty. As Dharma propagators, how can we elevate people’s faith  with this nihilistic and ignorant kind of view? 
Emptiness is meant to be constructive; with emptiness comes  existence. For example, where would you sleep if there are no empty  rooms? Where would you work if there is no empty desktop to work  on? Where would you build a house if there is no empty land?  Where would you put your money if your pockets are not empty?  How could you survive if your stomach is not empty? Emptiness  is so good, so wonderful! So why explain emptiness as nihilism?  Emptiness is meant to be full of action, potential, and success. 
The same goes for the concept of impermanence. Impermanence  is wonderful because it means that nothing is fixed; we can thus  change, improve, and transcend. Situations can become better, more  wholesome, and beautiful. So why make it sound like everything  in this world is coming to an end when we explain impermanence?  Why make people feel so hopeless? Impermanence is a beacon of  hope for Buddhists to learn about the Middle Way. We have failed  to attain the true meaning of Buddhism and thereby misunderstood  the intentions of the Buddha. Thus, we must research and restore  the true meaning of these Buddhist teachings, and propagate them. 
For over two thousand years, the Buddha has carried the indignity  of those who have been propagating deviant and false views, going  against his intents, teaching the Dharma through misunderstanding,  superstition, and skewed perspectives, all done in his name. 
Take the practice of giving as an example. Sometimes, giving  others a phrase, a smile, or a service are all acts of giving. However,  today’s Buddhism explains giving in terms of a monetary donation.  The practice of giving does not only mean we ask others to give, but  we should be the ones who are willing to let go and offer. 
Upholding precepts is another cultivation on the path of learning  Buddhism. However, it is usually spoken from the perspective of  telling others to uphold and follow. What about our actions, minds,  and speech? Are they following with the Dharma? If we do not have  a painful sense of remorse, how can we improve as Buddhists? 
In An Inspiration to Give Rise to the Bodhi Mind, Venerable  Sheng’an said, “The main gate for entering the Path is to first give  rise to aspirations.” To give rise to aspirations means to have right  faith and right view. Simply put, the way to practice Buddhism is to  cultivate loving-kindness, compassion, joy, and equanimity, the Four  Means of Embracing, and the Six Paramitas. However, today, we  teach devotees that the practice of the Six Paramitas consists only of  offering incense and venerating in the temple, believing that the act  of donation can eradicate calamities. Therefore, Huineng the Sixth  Patriarch admonished in the “Gatha of Formlessness,” “Attaining  buddhahood does not come from giving money.” However, how  many Buddhists have ever taken in the Sixth Patriarch’s teachings? 
We need to raise the issue of correcting erroneous views about  Buddhism so that the true meaning of the Buddha will not be lost,  and enhance deeper and proper understanding of the Buddha’s original intents. Take the practice of life-releasing as an example.  To hold a life-releasing ceremony, they first must catch fish and  birds, and who knows how many lives were killed in the process?  So, for those who hold a life-releasing ceremony for longevity, how  can they live a long life?  
There are also people without the right understanding of the  law of cause and effect, thinking that becoming vegetarians makes  them healthy, or praying to the Buddha leads to the acquirement of  wealth and fortune. This would be going against the law of cause  and effect. There are relative causes and effects for the accumulation  of wealth, health, and faith. How can we expect to harvest beans when we planted melons? 
Some people deceive with deeds such as acquiring good fortune  by being the first to strike the bell or offer incense on Chinese New  Year, turning these activities into superstitions that are not in accord  with the Dharma. These people do not understand that the sound of  the bell is only to alert us to do good, and the burning of incense  is an act of offering to the Buddha and should not be done for  profit. Moreover, various practices of fortune-telling focus only on  praying for wishes to be fulfilled, instead of focusing on Buddhist  cultivation. How can these acts be in accord with cause and effect? 
What about the geomantic principle of feng shui? Everything  has its own principle. For example, there are principles for social  interaction, principles for relationships, and principles of material  objects. Of course, the geographical environment has its principle.  However, geomancy should not only be about searching for the  best feng shui for good luck. If your living environment has good  air circulation, is hygienic, is balanced with an open view, then it  is already in the best geomantic position. Just look at Xuankong  Temple (lit. Hanging Temple) in Shanxi, Mainland China. Do you  think the location can be deciphered with geomancy? 
Buddhism talks about the Eight Groups of Heavenly Beings.  Where is heaven? What are the eight groups? We can describe them  as different ethnic groups, instead of heavenly gods and armies.  
It is said that the Buddha was born from the right flank of his  mother. Did anyone witness this? Why attach so many far-fetched  legends to the Buddha? What about the Buddhist Councils? There  are always people with ulterior motives that include apocryphal  sutras and commentary into the Buddhist canon, all under the name  of the Buddha. 
Buddhism has always been mocked as a polytheistic religion  because of the many bodhisattvas and arhats who exist. Moreover,  most of these figures are only mentioned in the sutras and are not  real historical figures. Those with historical references such as  Nagarjuna, Asanga, and Vasubandhu are truly acknowledged. For  those with no historical references, who were their parents? Where  did they grow up? We need not deny them. Rather, we can consider  them as manifestations of the Buddha.  
Why not place the focus of the faith on the Buddha instead? Why  the need for so many deities such as the god of wealth, god of the  city, god of the hearth, goddess of birth, and the god of love? We say  that gods created humans, but humans also created gods. Buddhism  differs from other religions in that the Buddha was an awakened  human being. He had a historical background, he truly was a human  being, and not a god or goddess that arose from imagination or  hearsay. Therefore, the Buddha is the greatest awakened one. Why do Buddhists not return to the Buddha his original face? Hapless Buddha! For two thousand years, he has been shrouded  with the coat of superstition and obscured by the masks of deities  and ghosts by the so-called devotees. It is a great pity that the  Buddha should lose his original identity. 
For example, Buddhism talks about the Four Immeasurable Vows  so that we can make vows and practice them. But today, Buddhists  only talk the talk, they dare not walk the walk. If no one practices,  what use is there for the Four Universal Vows? 
Another example is that the Buddha taught the Six Paramitas  so that we understand these as the ways to practice the Bodhisattva  Path. The paramitas of generosity, precept, patience, diligence,  meditative concentration, and prajna wisdom are practices of  delivering self and others. However, monastics today hold others to  the standard of the Six Paramitas, yet they themselves do not give.  They wish only to receive. Resultantly, the devotees are the ones  who get delivered, while we are still stuck on the other shore. What  to do? Monastics go through the teachings of the Buddha for the  sake of finding ways to receive gains and benefits. The development  of this type of perverse thinking and action can only be subject to  the future ruling of the law of cause and effect. There is no law  today that ensures the Buddha’s teaching is exercised according to  his original intents. 
The foremost practice in this world is the Noble Eightfold Path.  In the past, foreigners from the Western regions tried to explain the  Noble Eightfold Path, hence the coining of the term húshuō bādào.1 However, this term has become an insult for people talking nonsense.  How can we answer to the people from the Western regions? 
Between the Sui and Tang Dynasty, some young practitioners  studied with eminent Buddhist masters. For a time, they either  studied under Chan Master Mazu in Jiangxi, or Chan Master Xiqian  in Hunan. The term “roaming Jianghu”2 refers to their deeds of  traveling and learning. However, such a meaningful term has come  to mean vagabonds performing their monkey tricks. Who will be the  one to correct this? 
In Buddhism, we also see sutras such as the Vimalakirti Nirdesa  Sutra and Srimaladevi Simhanada Sutra. Are Layman Vimalakirti  and Lady Srimala not lay Dharma teachers? Why do we think that  the Age of Declining Dharma is near when lay professors and  devotees are teaching the Dharma? This obstructs many outstanding  Buddhists from propagating Buddhism. Does fault not lie with those  who keep promoting these kinds of deviant sayings? 
Another example is the term “eternal life.” Originally, this  Buddhist term means that life does not end in death but continues  in the cycle of samsara. However, when Christians promoted that  believers will have eternal life, Buddhists were afraid to use this  term. Another term is “savior.” The Buddha truly is a savior, for  he came to this world to deliver all beings. However, because  Christianity proclaimed Jesus Christ the savior, Buddhism was  afraid to call the Buddha a savior. Such beautiful terms are adopted  by other religions, while the Buddha becomes associated with  improper faiths, miraculous and ghostly incidents, as well as deviant  thoughts and views.  
The Vinaya notes that should a person “handle alcohol, one  will be reborn without hands for five hundred lifetimes.” How can  such a serious punishment exist? Which eminent master established this precept? This person did not understand the original intents of  the Buddha and chronicled such a deviant saying due to improper  understanding and lack of common sense. Moreover, on the issue of  the Ten Sramanera Precepts, research should be conducted on how  many Buddhist elders truly uphold them. These precepts cannot  even be fully upheld by senior monks, how can we expect newly  tonsured sramaneras to uphold them? Is this not nonsensical? 
On the term the “Eight Garudharmas,” from my understanding,  the Buddha promoted equality, as can be seen in the saying, “When  beings of the four castes leave the householder’s life, they all together  join the Sakya clan.” So, how can there be Eight Garudharmas that  promote gender inequality? Which eminent master established  these precepts and makes people uphold them in the name of the  Buddha? In Buddhism, taking refuge shows the spirit of democracy  and upholding the Five Precepts signifies freedom. The Buddha  advocated equality among the Four Groups of Disciples. Why not  combine the wonderful Dharma with today’s universal values of  freedom, democracy, and equality? 
In the Buddhist sphere of today, numerous people claim this or  that are the words of the Buddha. However, were they truly spoken  by the Buddha? On the contrary, how can we claim that this and  that were not spoken by the Buddha? Whatever the Buddha did say  and do, we will practice it as the Dharma teaching. We now advise  others to practice as the Buddha did, to learn from the Buddha, to  be a buddha, to believe that “I am buddha.” However, we must be  careful not to wrong the Buddha and use his name to instruct while  still clinging to our attachments and deviant views. Such actions  shall bring serious consequences. 
Today’s Buddhists have become volunteers for Buddhism. They  offer to protect their faith. They embrace Buddhism. But, what has  Buddhism given to these devotees in return? 
Once, when I was presiding over a Taking Refuge and Five  Precepts Ceremony, a devotee refused to take the precepts out of  fear of taking the precept of no lying. It was because he had heard  about the story of a Chan Master who was reborn as a fox for five  hundred lifetimes from having claimed that great practitioners are  “not subjected to karma” when he had meant that they too were  “subjected to karma.” This devotee was terrified that he might lie.  I believe that when other Buddhists hear of his reason, they would  dissuade him from taking the precepts. 
Instead of worrying about lying, one can choose to practice  Right Speech. Once there was a Buddhist who owned a textile store,  and when customers wanted to buy a piece of cloth, they would ask,  “How much for a foot of fabric?”  
“Five dollars.”  
“Does the color fade?”  
To sell the cloth, he would lie and say, “No, it doesn’t.” Later, I told him not to respond that way. Instead, I suggested  that he could say, “The five-dollar fabric fades easily, but the eight dollar one does not.” Due to the honorable reputation he gained from  being honest, his business boomed, which allowed him to build an  establishment. Dharma brings goodness to all. My only concern is,  why do people not positively explain Buddhism so devotees can  receive the benefit of the Dharma? 
Buddha-Dharma: Pure and Simple is a series of nearly 300 topics  that address my understanding of the subjects that I encounter daily.  
The problems confronted by Buddhism lie deeper. I just hope there  are determined people who will reassess Buddhism as a whole, and  return to Buddhism its original meaning so that the true teachings of  the Buddha can pervade in this world. 
Certainly, as Buddhism spread, it has evolved according to the  cultures, languages, traditions, people, and climates of different  geographical regions. Thus, skillful means required to enhance the  process of dissemination have certainly become a matter of fact.  
In Chinese Buddhism, only succeeding generations of Chan  Masters still possessed some Right View and understood some of  the Dharma. Few people continue to research and propagate the  true Dharma that other schools taught—for example, Dependent  Origination and the Middle Path as taught by the Three Treatise  School. As the saying goes, “Deviant faiths arise when right faith  declines.” I intend for this book to be a catalyst for all to think  outside the box. Should any ideas presented in this book sound  incomplete, I sincerely apologize. My humble hope is only that it  mirrors the intentions of the Buddha so that all may reassess the true  meaning of the Buddha-Dharma. I am grateful and humble to accept  any understanding and comments that reflect my intentions. 
May 2016 
 Founder’s Quarters, Fo Guang Shan 
